## Notes

Some study notes after reading an [article about common OAuth vulnerabilities](https://blog.doyensec.com/2025/01/30/oauth-common-vulnerabilities.html).

An attacker could perform an Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attack on an OAuth flow by tricking a victim's browser into making unintended requests to a web application where the victim is authenticated. For example, they could create a malicious website that contains a form with hidden fields matching the structure of a legitimate OAuth authorization request. When a user visits the site, their browser fills in authentication credentials and submits the request, thus unknowingly granting access permissions to the attacker.

One could prevent this attack with a `state` parameter, such as a random string generated by the client that is not predictable by attackers. The client application includes it as a part of their request (alongside the client ID, redirect URI, and scope) to the authorization server. Then, the server responds with an authorization code and the same state parameter that was sent, and the client validates that it matches what was originally sent.

Validating a `redirect_uri` by simply checking the domain or allowing subdomains is a common mistake. A hypothetical scenario: a user trying to submit a legitimate request when logging into their Google account and is redirected to `https://example.com/oauth/callback`, but the attacker has created a malicious website at `https://subdomain.example.com/evil-page` and includes a redirect URI like `https://subdomain.example.com/evil-page?code=malicious_code` in their OAuth request. Since the validation only checks the domain (`example.com`) and not the path, both legitimate and malicious URIs would be accepted. As such, the application redirects to the malicious URI and can use the authorization code to gain unauthorized access.

Adding a third-party login option like “Login with Google” could be a significant user experience improvement, but the key trade-off is its introduction of complexity and new potential security risks. I think a development team must balance convenience versus data protection by maintaining security responsibilities, including third-party providers handling user credentials, applications properly securing tokens/data, and users being less cautious when sharing information to familiar, seemingly trustworthy third-party interfaces. In turn, they could consider implementations such as token security (ex. strict validation), user awareness (ex. providing clear info about what data's being shared), and regular provider evaluation (ex. reviewing third-party security practices and making sure they're up-to-date).
